Getting started (#1072)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/docs/getting-started/kubernetes-quickstart.md

---
title: Try Falco on Kubernetes
description: Try Falco on Kubernetes
slug: falco-kubernetes-quickstart
aliases: [/falco-kubernetes-quickstart]
weight: 25
---

## Introduction

> Falco is designed to provide real-time notification of suspicious behavior. By default it can send these alerts to stdout, stdrerr, an https endpoint, and a gRPC endpoint. However in most production scenarios you will want to send the output to some other system so you can take further action. Perhaps you would forward notification to Elastic or an SIEM. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Falco is designed to provide real-time notification of suspicious behavior. By default, it can send these alerts to stdout, stdrerr, an HTTPs endpoint, and a gRPC endpoint. However, in most production scenarios, you will want to send the output to some other system so you can take further action. Perhaps you would forward notification to Elastic or an SIEM. 
```

I'm not sure I understand the "Perhaps you would forward notification to Elastic or an SIEM." line, and am tempted to suggest dropping it.

> Falco is designed to provide real-time notification of suspicious behavior. By default it can send these alerts to stdout, stdrerr, an https endpoint, and a gRPC endpoint. However in most production scenarios you will want to send the output to some other system so you can take further action. Perhaps you would forward notification to Elastic or an SIEM. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Falco is designed to provide real-time notification of suspicious behavior. By default, it can send these alerts to stdout, stdrerr, an HTTPs endpoint, and a gRPC endpoint. However, in most production scenarios, you will want to send the output to some other system so you can take further action.
```

> Falco is designed to provide real-time notification of suspicious behavior. By default, it can send these alerts to stdout, stdrerr, an HTTPs endpoint, and a gRPC endpoint. However, in most production scenarios, you will want to send the output to some other system so you can take further action. Perhaps you would forward notification to Elastic or an SIEM. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Falco is designed to provide real-time notification of suspicious behavior. By default, it can send these alerts to stdout, stdrerr, an HTTPs endpoint, and a gRPC endpoint. However, in most production scenarios, you will want to send the output to some other system so you can take further action.
```

> The important point is that, while Falco performs a valuable task, it is most effective as part of a larger security workflow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The important point is that while Falco performs a valuable task, it is most effective as part of a larger security workflow.
```

> You might be asking, how does Falco forward its alerts. One way to accomlish this is through an add-on piece of software, [Falcosidekick](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick). Falcosidekick can be used to forward notification to a wide variety of platforms including notification services, function as a service platforms, log aggregators, and many more. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be asking, how does Falco forward its alerts? One way to accomplish this is through an add-on piece of software, [Falcosidekick](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick). Falcosidekick can be used to forward notification to various platforms, including notification services, function as a service platforms, log aggregators, and many more. 
```

> In this walkthrough you will install Falco and Falcosidekick on a Kubernetes cluster. Falcosidekick will be configured to send alerts to a public Slack server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this walkthrough, you will install Falco and Falcosidekick on a Kubernetes cluster. Falcosidekick will be configured to send alerts to a public Slack server. 
```

## Prerequisites

> This walkthrough uses Helm to install Falco on a Kubernetes cluster. If you wish to follow the steps exactly as they were tested you'll need the following software: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This walkthrough uses Helm to install Falco on a Kubernetes cluster. If you wish to follow the steps precisely as they were tested, you'll need the following software:
```

### Mac requirements
* Lima
* Helm
* K3s
* Kubectl

### Windows and Linux requirements
* Virtualbox
* Vagrant
* Helm
* K3s
* Kubectl

## Create a Kubernetes cluster

### Create a K3s Cluster on Mac with Lima

> * Install [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/), [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/) and [Lima](https://github.com/lima-vm/lima#installation) according to the documentatioon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/), [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/), and [Lima](https://github.com/lima-vm/lima#installation) according to the documentation. 
```

* Use Lima to create a K3s cluster. 

    ```plain
    limactl start template://k3s
    ```

>     When prompted choose "Proceed with current configuration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When prompted, choose "Proceed with current configuration"
```

* Export the Kubeconfig file as shown in the Lima output

>     **Note**:  don't copy and paste from below, copy and paste from your terminal window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**:  don't copy and paste from below; copy and paste from your terminal window
```

    For example:
    ```plain
    export KUBECONFIG="/Users/falco.user/.lima/k3s/copied-from-guest/kubeconfig.yaml"
    ```

> * Check to see that the Kubernetes cluster is up and runnnig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check to see that the Kubernetes cluster is up and running
```

    ```plain
    kubectl get nodes
    ```

### Create a K3 cluster on Windows or Linux with Virtual box

> **Note**: while you can install K3s natively on Linux, the instructions below have been tested and offer a higher likliehood of success. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: while you can install K3s natively on Linux, the instructions below have been tested and offer a higher likelihood of success. 
```

* Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) and [Vagrant](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/downloads)

* Issue the following commands from the command line to create an Ubuntu 20.04 virtual machine

    ```plain
        vagrant init bento/ubuntu-20.04
        vagrant up
    ```

* Log into the newly launched virtual machine  (the default password is *vagrant*)

    ```plain
        ssh -p 2222 vagrant@127.0.0.1
    ```

* Install [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/), [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/), and [K3s](https://docs.k3s.io/quick-start per the instructions for Ubuntu 20.04

>     **Note**: be sure you're installing inside your SSH session, not on your local machine. Also installing K3s last makes the next step easier. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**: be sure you're installing inside your SSH session, not on your local machine. Also, installing K3s last makes the next step easier. 
```

* Export the Kubeconfig file as shown in the K3s output

>     **Note**:  don't copy and paste from below, copy and paste from your terminal window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**:  don't copy and paste from below; copy and paste from your terminal window
```

    For example:

    ```plain
    export KUBECONFIG="/Users/falco.user/.lima/k3s/copied-from-guest/kubeconfig.yaml"
    ```

> * Check to see that the Kubernetes cluster is up and runnnig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check to see that the Kubernetes cluster is up and running
```

    ```plain
    kubectl get nodes
    ```

> >Note: For Mac users do the remaining steps from the terminal on your local machine. For Windows and Linux users, do these steps in the terminal session for your Virtualbox VM. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: For Mac users, do the remaining steps from the terminal on your local machine. For Windows and Linux users, do these steps in the terminal session for your Virtualbox VM. 
```

## Install Falco using Helm

> Helm is probably the simplest way to deploy Falco and Falcosidekick. In this section you'll add the Falco Helm chart repository. Next you'll deploy Falco and Falcosidekick with the eBPF probe. Becuse we want to send output to a Slack channel you will provide the Slack webhook information. Additionally, we supply a custom parameter (*user*) that you will customize to your username. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Helm is the simplest way to deploy Falco and Falcosidekick. In this section, you'll add the Falco Helm chart repository. Next, you'll deploy Falco and Falcosidekick with the eBPF probe. Because we want to send output to a Slack channel, you will provide the Slack webhook information. Additionally, we supply a custom parameter (*user*) that you will customize to your username. 
```

* Add the Falco Helm repository

    ```plain
    helm repo add falcosecurity https://falcosecurity.github.io/charts
    helm repo update
    ```

* Create a namespace (*falco*) in which to run Falco

    ```plain
    kubectl create namespace falco
    ```

> * Use Helm to install Falco and Falcosidekick. Notice we are specifying the eBPF probe, as well as the information to forward any alerts with a priority higher than *Notice* to our Slack server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use Helm to install Falco and Falcosidekick. Notice we are specifying the eBPF probe and the information to forward any alerts with a priority higher than *Notice* to our Slack server. 
```

    ```plain 
    helm install falco -n falco --set driver.kind=ebpf --set tty=true falcosecurity/falco \
    --set falcosidekick.enabled=true \
    --set falcosidekick.config.slack.webhookurl="https://hooks.slack.com/services/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" \
    --set falcosidekick.config.slack.minimumpriority=notice \
    --set falcosidekick.config.customfields="user:<changeme>"
    ```

* Wait for the Falco and Falcosidekick pods to come online

    ```plain 
    k get pods -n falco  -w
    ```

> You should ultimately see 3 entries similar to below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should ultimately see 3 entries similar to those below
```

```plain
NAME                                   READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
falco-falcosidekick-59c5d6cc45-l2qjz   1/1     Running   0          3m7s
falco-falcosidekick-59c5d6cc45-kpcws   1/1     Running   0          3m7s
falco-vdsc8                            2/2     Running   0          3m7s
``` 

## Simulate suspicious activity

> One of Falco's rules alerts you if someone runs an interactive shell into a running container. In this section you'll shell into a running Alpine container to trigger a Falco notification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of Falco's rules alerts you if someone runs an interactive shell into a running container. In this section, you'll shell into a running Alpine container to trigger a Falco notification
```

* Start an Alpine container 

    ```plain 
    kubectl run alpine --image alpine -- sh -c "sleep infinity"
    ```
* Wait for the Alpine pod to come online

    ```plain
    kubectl get pods -w
    ```
You should see something similar to this:

```plain
NAME     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
alpine   1/1     Running   0          16s
```

> * Shell into the runnign container and run the *uptime* command. This will trigger Falco to send an Alert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Shell into the running container and run the *uptime* command. This will trigger Falco to send an Alert
```

```
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/name=falco -n falco -c falco | grep Notice
```

You should see output similar to this:

```
{"hostname":"falco-vdsc8","output":"22:09:57.827858816: Notice A shell was spawned in a container with an attached
 terminal (user=root user_loginuid=-1 k8s.ns=default k8s.pod=alpine container=d34690e67a3a shell=sh parent=runc 
 cmdline=sh -c uptime pid=6461 terminal=34816 container_id=d34690e67a3a image=<NA> exe_flags=EXE_WRITABLE)",
 "priority":"Notice","rule":"Terminal shell in container","source":"syscall","tags":["T1059","container",
 "mitre_execution","shell"],"time":"2023-07-26T22:09:57.827858816Z", "output_fields": {"container.
 id":"d34690e67a3a","container.image.repository":null,"evt.arg.flags":"EXE_WRITABLE","evt.time":1690409397827858816,
 "k8s.ns.name":"default","k8s.pod.name":"alpine","proc.cmdline":"sh -c uptime","proc.name":"sh","proc.pid":6461,
 "proc.pname":"runc","proc.tty":34816,"user.loginuid":-1,"user.name":"root"}}
```

> Notice that there is a bunch of interesting information in the output including thigs like the pod name, container id, time of the notification, and much more. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that there is a bunch of interesting information in the output, including the pod name, container id, time of the notification, and much more. 
```

> * Since we used Falcosidekick to send the information to Slack, you can view it there as well. Simply visit our #falco-notifications channel on the [public slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/sysdig-workshops/shared_invite/zt-1rd6raamc-UldAmUJe5FgnB5NhsAPeMQ) and look for the alert with your name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Since we used Falcosidekick to send the information to Slack, you can also view it there. Visit our #falco-notifications channel on the [public slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/sysdig-workshops/shared_invite/zt-1rd6raamc-UldAmUJe5FgnB5NhsAPeMQ) and look for the alert with your name. 
```

![Slack output](../images/slack-output.png)

## Congratulations, you finished this scenario!

> Check out other items in our Getting Started section including installing Falco on Linux or learning more about Falco's architecture and features in the additional resources section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out other items in our Getting Started section, including installing Falco on Linux or learning more about Falco's architecture and features in the additional resources section.
```
